---
description: November 24th 2020
---

# v13.4

## Change Log 🚧 - v13.4

* Added the ability for the Director to send TEXT messages as overlays to specific performers. Font size is nice and large; each message lasts for 3 to 8 seconds on screen. Can be disabled with the added bell icon. 💬
* Using \&device=0 gives the user no option between webcam or screenshare now; just a join now button.
* Some issues with "permissions not accepted" timeout errors fixed, especially when \&webcam flag is used or when no audio device was found
* Android-based Smartphones can use the "torch" or flashlight now; turn on via settings menu when the rear camera selected.
* the Electron App's top-drag-bar-region has a minimum height now, so its easier to drag even if a very small window.
* http://linkgen.vdo.ninja/ has been created by a community user; a wizard-like interface for creating invite links. \[work in progress?]
* A community user-made quick-start / cheat sheet guide has been updated with automation workflows; Mac user-focused: https://github.com/steveseguin/vdo.ninja/tree/quickstart
* Improved compatibility of the Exposure/Focus controls for webcams/android devices, available via settings. (manual/continuous drop-down options were added)
* Manual camera controls hidden behind a "Show Advanced" drop down menu now
* Czech-language translation added (user contributed; thank you)
* The **\&broadcast** flag 📺 was introduced. If added to a guest invite link, that guest will only be able to see video pushed by the director. (no website header and no video self preview either). You can also specify a stream ID manually (instead of the director) by passing it a value; \&broadcast=STREAMIDHERE. Guests will be able to hear each other still; just not see each other, which reduces CPU/Bandwidth requirements for guests. This flag doesn't create new functionality; just simplifies existing functionality.
* \&noheader is now an alias of \&hideheader
* I changed the "faux full-screen" icon to a pair of glasses 👓, which I hope makes its purpose more clear
* I changed the Director's room access to iOS streams to be h264-based by default, rather than VP8-based. I had it set to be VP8, but it broke the record-video function, so I've changed it back to h264.
* You can change the bitrate of video previews as a director now from 0-bitrate, 50-kbps bitrate, and 1200-kbps bitrate. Three buttons are available per video to do this dynamically. 0-will FREEZE the video track as a result; might reduce some CPU/network load on guests by having the track paused like this if not needed.
* On newer versions of Chromium, (86/87), there does seem to be support for Hardware Encoding now, although it is still highly experimental. It sometimes will trigger if \&codec=h264 is set, and if the video resolution is higher than \~360p. Just noting this; it's not officially supported yet tho.
* Added a new TURN relay server; located in US Central. Things are starting to get expensive, lol. Thank you to those who have donated; it takes the sting out. ❤❤❤❤
* \&audiodevice=XXXX and \&vd=XXXX device filters match device labels based on string 'contains' rather than 'starts with'.
* Users can select the audio output destination now by label name instead of \&sink=device\_id; \&outputdevice=NAMEHERE 🔉 (alias \&od)
* Some JavaScript libraries were moved off of public CDNs and are now hosted locally instead
* Changed redirecting MS IE users from Chrome to MS Edge instead.
* On iOS, if using Chrome, I now give you a warning about Chrome on iOS not being compatible.
* Updated https://vdo.ninja/?fileshare so that the file sharing option will let you select multiple media files. Hold CTRL or whatever to multi-select multiple media files to play.
* Updated the Electron Capture app; mac-specific issues fixed mainly.
* Fixed an issue where \&turn=false wasn't working as expected. Setting to false disables the TURN servers from being used.
* added a bit of URL auto-correction code. If a user starts the URL params with & instead of ? the system will auto-fix it. Same goes if they forget to add a ? to the start entirely.
* Lots of other minor changes; FPS-stat on Electron app, permissions bugs, UI tweaks, typos, etc.

## Regarding the IFRAMES API 👓

* added **\&manual** as a URL parameter option, which disables the auto video mixer if used. This is mainly for IFRAME API users who want to perhaps control the video layouts themselves.
* added an IFRAME API command that will allow for dynamic disable/enable control of the auto-mixer
* added a way to specify a video by stream ID via the IFRAME API to set a custom style for the video; allows for dynamic stylings to videos (all-videos or one specific one at a time)
* added a way to add or remove a video by stream ID from the mixer area.
* added a way to list all available streamIDs and labels via the IFRAME API
* added an IFRAME API function to change the innerHTML/text of a specified HTML element.
* added the ability to insert custom CSS styles via the IFRAME API
* Added the ability to mute the video (black it out) via the IFRAME api.

(samples of these changes added to the dev iframe sandbox page; https://vdo.ninja/iframe)

## Final words

I've had a lot of great feature requests lately; apologies if I didn't get them all out this release. Staying ahead of stability issues has been the priority for me this month. More features coming though.

🙏 Thank you to everyone who has helped with user support on Reddit and Discord this month; it has freed up time for me to get some sleep. Thank you to Chris for the detailed beta-testing. Thank you sincerely to those who have donated to the project. And also thank you to those who have shared VDO.Ninja with friends, family, and followers -- VDO.Ninja is growing and it's all thanks to you.
