---
description: Not ready for production, not intended to be used or not well-documented
---

# Other Parameters

There are some more parameters on [VDO.Ninja](https://vdo.ninja/) which are currently not ready for production, not intended to be used, or not well-documented.

You could find out more about these parameters when searching for them on this link:\
[https://github.com/steveseguin/vdo.ninja/blob/develop/main.js](https://github.com/steveseguin/vdo.ninja/blob/develop/main.js)

<table><thead><tr><th width="241.57142857142856">Parameter</th><th>Explanation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>&#x26;crop</code></td><td>Changes the aspect ratio on the publisher side, but lets you pass an integer value to represent a percentile cropping value.<br><br>So, <code>&#x26;crop=10</code> will reduce the width by 90% and <code>&#x26;crop=-10</code> will increase the aspect ratio. The assumed base aspect ratio is 16:9.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;debug</code></td><td>Sends live debug log data to a remote server. That debug server is normally off, but this flag can be used by Steve to debug issues remotely. The debug data is not stored at any point.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;directorview</code></td><td>Not currently an active feature.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;nomouseevents</code></td><td>Disables 'some' of the mouse/touch/drag triggers and events; for debugging and niche situations.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;nonacks</code></td><td><p>'Tries' to force the browser to not send key frames or lower quality/resolution; doesn't really work.</p><p></p><p>Tells the browser to not send NACK feedback.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;nopli</code></td><td>Tries to find ways to combat frame stutter caused by packet loss or key frame requests. Doesn't really work.<br><br>Tells the browser to not send picture loss indicators.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;noremb</code></td><td>Deletes the flag for Chrome's bandwidth estimation logic.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;pusheffectsdata</code></td><td>Makes the data for the active digital effect available to the IFRAME API or a remote guest.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;retry</code></td><td>Used in rare cases, sometimes with the Raspberry Ninja project, where the peer connection may "crash" and the remote viewer won't bother to try reconnecting.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;retrytimeout</code></td><td>Should not be changed (value in milliseconds).</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;salt</code></td><td>Mainly to allow <a href="steves-helper-apps/versus.cam.md">Versus.cam</a> to work with VDO.Ninja.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;slot</code></td><td>Not currently an active feature.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;speedtest</code></td><td>Forces essentially UDP mode, unless TCP is specified, and some other stuff.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;viewereffect</code></td><td>Not currently an active feature.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;wss</code></td><td>Specify the handshake server address to use.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;graphs</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;lowmobilebitrate</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;maxmobilebitrate</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;minroombitrate</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;sendframes</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;overlaycontrols</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;pushloudness</code></td><td>This sets the loudness IFRAME API output, if available</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;hangupbutton</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;socialstream</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;fakeuser</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;androidfix</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;scenelinkcodec</code></td><td>This is mainly for a niche IFRAME API use</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;scenelinkbitrate</code></td><td>This is mainly for a niche IFRAME API use</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;showheader</code></td><td>Forces the header bar to show even if using <a href="advanced-settings/design-parameters/cleanoutput.md"><code>&#x26;cleanoutput</code></a> for example</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;degrade</code></td><td>Firefox, and maybe Safari, supported I think. The possible values are <code>maintain-framerate</code>, <code>maintain-resolution</code>, or <code>balanced</code>. The default value is balanced.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;iframetarget</code></td><td>Specifies the IFRAME Hostname target</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;bypass</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;mixminus</code></td><td>In development</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;nopassword</code></td><td>?</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;micsamplerate</code></td><td>Lets you specify the capture audio sample rate. Also added purely for experimental reasons; I don't recommend touching.</td></tr><tr><td><code>&#x26;insertablestreams</code></td><td>Enables a special mode that allows for custom codecs</td></tr></tbody></table>
